So what I have learned so far:
I need outside competitions and leadership instead of just in school clubs
I need to do more cs focused competitions aka going to TSA NLC instead of FBLA NLC even tho I dont wanna
Publish something and get a lot of downloads??
More community service, volunteer at a local library, young diplomats
Get Certified in all things tech

How Sterling Scholars are judged

SCHOLARSHIP- 20 Points (15%) A nominee’s overall GPA, difficulty of class schedule, standardized test scores such as
ACT and SAT, class ranking, and similar scholarship items attained during high school will be used to establish points for
Scholarship.

CATEGORY EXPERTISE- 20 Points (15%) Emphasis is placed on the nominee’s ability and talent in their specific category.
While judges seek evidence of growth and service in all activities, the nominee’s talent and aptitude within their
category will receive particular emphasis.

LEADERSHIP- 20 Points (15%) The qualities of leadership in Utah public high schools can be measured in part by the
responsibilities placed on a nominee by his/her teachers and fellow nominees. However, evidence of positive influence
with fellow nominees also shall be considered an indication of leadership.

COMMUNITY SERVICE/CITIZENSHIP- 20 Points (15%). Each Sterling Scholar nominee should exhibit a record of high
standards of citizenship throughout his/her high school years. Service to school, community or other organizations will
be considered. The nominee’s attitude toward the acceptance of responsibility in contribution roles, as well as seeking
out service opportunities, will be especially important. Evidence of a long-term commitment to service will also receive
particular attention.

INTERVIEW- 20 Points (40%) – Semi-finalist and Finalist Judging. During the interview, judges will evaluate the nominee’s
ability to answer questions pertaining to their category. Body language, technical knowledge, communication skills,
professional appearance and plans for continued education in the category will all be included in the interview point
assessment.
